Dedicated article for UNO R4 WiFi's with missing USB bridge firmware [HC-1549] (#436)
arduino/help-center-content: content/Hardware Support/UNO/Restore-the-connectivity-firmware-on-UNO-R4-WiFi-with-espflash.md

   * [unor4wifi-update-windows.zip](https://github.com/arduino/uno-r4-wifi-usb-bridge/releases/latest/download/unor4wifi-update-windows.zip){.link-download}
   * [unor4wifi-update-macos.zip](https://github.com/arduino/uno-r4-wifi-usb-bridge/releases/latest/download/unor4wifi-update-macos.zip){.link-download}
   * [unor4wifi-update-linux.zip](https://github.com/arduino/uno-r4-wifi-usb-bridge/releases/latest/download/unor4wifi-update-linux.zip){.link-download}
1. Open your system's command line application inside the extracted folder.
   * **Windows:** Hold <kbd>⇧Shift</kbd> and right-click any blank space inside the extracted folder. In the context menu, select **Open command window here / Open PowerShell window here**.
   * **macOS:** Control-click on the unzipped `unor4wifi-update-macos` folder and select "**New Terminal at Folder**" from the context menu. A terminal window will open.
   * **Linux:** Open [a command line terminal](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/command-line-for-beginners) in the extracted folder.
1. Run the command:
   * **Windows:** `bin\espflash write-bin -b 115200 0x0 (Get-Item .\firmware\UNOR4-WIFI-S3-*.bin).FullName`

>    * **macOS/Linux:** `./bin/espflash write-bin -b 115200 0x0 firmware/UNOR4-WIFI-S3-*.bin`

Reviewer: Good point. But since we're only using espflash in this procedure, allowing update.command to run shouldn't be neccessary. So we get

```suggestion
   * **macOS/Linux:** `./bin/espflash write-bin -b 115200 0x0 firmware/UNOR4-WIFI-S3-*.bin`
     > [!NOTE]
     > You may need to adjust your system's security settings to allow this command if you encounter a warning pop-up. To proceed, go to _System Preferences > Privacy & Security_, and under _Security_, click _Allow Anyway_ to allow espflash to run . 
   
```

1. The terminal window might now show a list of the serial ports present on your computer. Use the arrow keys on your keyboard to select the port for the board and then press the <kbd>**Enter**</kbd> key.

>    * **Windows:** The board will have a name like "USB Serial device". <!-- TODO: Confirm name -->

Reviewer 2: ![Screenshot 2024-10-16 140554](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7e3ca0dc-3fd6-4927-8e1b-345bb48b7e3c)

👍

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Windows:** The board will have a name like "USB Serial Device".
```

   * **macOS:** The board will be named "USB JTAG_serial debug unit". Two ports with this name will be available, select the port that starts with `/dev/cu.usbmodem*`. <!-- TODO: Same for Linux, probably. Confirm this. -->
   * If you can't find it, try following steps 1–3 again.

> 1. The terminal window will now show the following prompt:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. The terminal window may show the following prompt:
```
This message didn't show up when using macOS.

   ```text
   ? Remember this serial port for future use? (y/n) ›
   ```

   Press the <kbd>**N**</kbd> key on your keyboard.
1. The flashing process should now start. Wait for it to finish, as indicated by output that looks something like this:

   ```text
   [2023-07-11T08:59:44Z INFO ] Connecting...
   [2023-07-11T08:59:45Z INFO ] Using flash stub
   Chip type:         esp32s3 (revision v0.1)
   Crystal frequency: 40MHz
   Flash size:        8MB
   Features:          WiFi, BLE
   MAC address:       dc:54:75:c4:c6:54
   [00:00:14] [========================================]     689/689     0x0
   ```

1. Close the terminal window.

> 1. Disconnect the USB cable of the **UNO R4 WiFi** board from your computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Disconnect the USB cable and the jumper wire from the **UNO R4 WiFi** board.
```

Reviewer: We will recommend removing the connection between the ESP32 pins earlier in the procedure, as discussed [here](https://github.com/arduino/help-center-content/pull/436/files#r1802602186). So there should be no jumper wire to remove at this step. Perhaps a reminder could still be warrented, I will heck back on this after we've resolved the other conversation.
